## Setting up the database

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Running Database

```shell
cd mongodb/docker/
docker-compose up -d
```

### Add Local Environment Variable

```
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://user:pass@localhost:27017/
```

## Currency exchange methods

### GET

```
http://localhost:5000/exchange-rate/EUR/HUF/2023-09-28/2023-10-05
```

```
response shape:
{
"rates": [
{
"date": "2023-10-02",
"rate": 388.6
},
{
"date": "2023-10-03",
"rate": 386.73
},
{
"date": "2023-10-04",
"rate": 387.32
},
{
"date": "2023-10-05",
"rate": 387.08
}
]
}
```

## Currency exchange services

Functions from ecb-euro-exchange

- get<br />
  Fetches and resolves the promise using axios
- assertString<br />
  Checks if the resolved data is in fact a string. Not sure why would this be needed.
- parse<br />
  Using the fast-xml-parser creates a usable array of exchangerate result objects.
- fetch<br />
  This function uses the daily url which results in a single day's exhange rates.
- fetchHistoric90d<br />
  This function fetches and transforms the data from the XML document containing the last 90 days' exchange rates.
- fetchHistoric<br />
  Just like the 90d function, except it uses all the available data, which dates back to 1999 at the moment. Useful for the first initiation of the exchange database(db).
  ###My functions
- returnLastFile<br />
  The files are named after the year, which's information they contain. This function returns the last filename which essentially is the last year the database has data from. Removes the .json extension from the result.
- returnLastDate<br />
  Returns the last stored exchange object's time value.
- pushDayRate<br />
  Pushes the supplied updates to the exchange object array leaving in place the previous objects stored in the array.
- getUpdate<br />
  Chooses a fetch method based on how many days is the db behind. Fetches, parses and returns an update which can be used to write in the JSON file(s). Returns an object, where the key is the year (file name) and the value is the desired file content.
- writeFiles<br />
  Does the file operation(s) based on an update variable generated by getUpdate.

## Currency exchange functions

- readRates<br />
  Opens the files(s) based on the date range given. Calculates the crossrates for every available date point which fits between the two given dates and returns the information.
- getRate<br />
  Reads the data with readRates function and returns it
